# Sound

*What can be communicated to humans, and how, through sound designs (including voice) that may be reproduced on a drone with on-board speakers, as well as through the noises produced by a drone’s spining propellers?*

## Summary Analysis

There exists consensus in the literature on empirical studies with social drones that propeller noise (along with the airflow generated by the blades) is associated strongly with discomfort that impacts the experience as a whole, which is especially salient with larger drones. In addition to suggesting the adoption of drone size and noise minimization as a tentative design goal across scenarios involving social drones, this finding also motivates future work on active systems that may serve to reduce the noise and airflow originating from a drone while maintaining heavier technical capabilities.

In many design studies, voice and abstract sound synthesis capabilities on drones have been suggested by participants or otherwise emerged as plausible methods for human-drone communication. However, in contrast to work that deals with various [light and display configurations](https://github.com/socialdrones/designreview/blob/master/design-concerns/ddc/displays.md), as well as [flight characteristics](https://github.com/socialdrones/designreview/blob/master/design-concerns/ddc/flight.md), we have not come across any studies that propose concrete designs for such features and evaluate their effectiveness. Future work on sound design for social drones is thereby motivated.

## Sources

[Displaydrone: A Flying Robot Based Interactive Display](2013_Scheible_Displaydrone.md) by Jürgen Scheible, Achin Hoth, Julian Saal, and Haifeng Su in *PerDis*

- Very attention-grabbing: as a flying object, noise source, and light source

[Daedalus: A sUAV for Human-Robot Interaction](2014_Arroyo_Daedalus.md) by Dante Arroyo, Cesar Lucho, Julissa Roncal, and F
Francisco Cuellar in *HRI*

- Movements without propeller noise tended to generate positive emotions, while movements with operating propellers evoked the opposite.

[DroneNavigator: Using Drones for Navigating Visually Impaired Persons](2015_Avila_DroneNavigator.md) by Mauro Avila, Markus Funk, and Niels Henze in *ASSETS*

- The sound of the drone's propellers itself is sufficient to locate the drone in the absence of sight, with a precision that allows for targets as small as 50cm.

[Drone & Me: An Exploration Into Natural Human-Drone Interaction](2015_Cauchard_DroneAndMe.md) by Jessica R. Cauchard, Jane L. E, Kevin Y. Zhai, and James A. Landay in *UbiComp*

- Noise and airflow around the drone led to discomfort.

[A Drone Agent to Support a Clean Environment](2015_Obaid_Environment.md) by Mohammad Obaid, Omar Mubin, Christina Anne Basedow, A. Ayça Ünlüer, Matz Johansson Bergström, and Morten Fjeld in *HAI*

- Mutimodal interaction (audio+visual) with a drone was found to be more effective and "sensible" than audio-only and visual-only modalities.

6. [Exploring the Use of a Drone to Guide Blind Runners](2016_AlZayer_Runners.md) by Majed Al-Zayer, Sam Tregillus, Jiwan Bhandari, Dave Feil-Seifer, and Eelke Folmer in *ASSETS*
- It may be feasible to use drones for tasks involving localization and nagivation at a slow pace, by the sound of the drone alone, without relying on sight.
- At a high pace, when running or undertaking physical exercise of intensity, it is not feasible to expect people to follow or localize a drone by sound alone, without sight.

[Elevating Communication, Collaboration, and Shared Experiences in Mobile Video through Drones](2016_Jones_MobileVideo.md) by Brennan Jones, Kody Dillman, Richard Tang, Anthony Tang, Ehud Sharlin, Lora Oehlberg, Carman Neustaedter, and Scott Bateman in *DIS*

- FPs were genrally comfortable around the drone, but some reported discomfort with propeller noise.

[DroneNavigator: Using Leashed and Free-Floating Quadcopters to Navigate Visually Impaired Travelers](2017_AvilaSoto_DroneNavigator.md) by Mauro Avila Soto, Markus Funk, Matthias Hoppe, Robin Boldt, Katrin Wolf, and Niels Henze in *ASSETS*

- Task completion time was fastest with the free-flying quadcopter, followed by the leashed quadcopter, then the audio. Task completion time with the free-flying quadcopter was significantly faster than with the audio navigation.
- Audio navigation led to the most navigation errors, followed by the free-flying quadcopter. The leashed quadcopter led to the least errors. Differences were statistically signifiant.
- Audio navigation was perceived to be inducing the least workload, followed by the leashed quadcopter, then the free-flying quadcopter. However, these differences were not statistically significant.
- Most participants preferred to use audio navigation, followed by the free-flying drone, then the leashed drone.
- The quadcopter was considered advantageous since it does not encumber the user.
- Confidence in quadcopter navigation was not high, since it may be difficult to perceive it in noisy environments, and the noise became annoying to participants after a while.
- The leashed quadcopter was accepted as a precise navigation tool, but was not preferred since it encumbers both hands (one with the leash, while one is readily holding a cane).
- Despite leading to better task performance and various ergonomic advantages, acceptance of drones as a navigational aid was not higher than the technically "worse" solution (audio); due to a lack of confidence in the technology in diverse environments, noise characteristics, and concerns over social acceptance.

["Spiders in the Sky": User Perceptions of Drones, Privacy, and Security](2017_Chang_SpidersInTheSky.md) by Victoria Chang, Pramod Chundury, and Marshini Chetty in *CHI*

- Drone designs should explore the use of non-visual cues and recording feedback to enhance users’ privacy and security.
- All of the drone group participants had a negative reaction to the sound that the drone made.
- To help protect wildlife, we also suggest that drones could be designed with visual or audio animal repellents.

[Investigating Drone Motion as Pedestrian Guidance](2017_Colley_InvestigatingDroneMotion.md) by Ashley Colley, Lasse Virtanen, Pascal Knierim, Jonna Häkkilä in *MUM*
- The drone’s loud noise was commented negatively by 7/10 participants.

[Exploring Proxemics in Human-Drone Interaction](2017_Yeh_ExploringProxemics.md) by Alexander Yeh, Photchara Ratsamee, Kiyoshi Kiyokawa, Yuki Uranishi, omohiro Mashita, Haruo Takemura, Morten Fjeld, and Mohammad Obaid in *HAI*

- Noise of the drone added to the mental stress of any human in the vicinity of the drone.
